---
title: "Rapid Characterization of hERG Channel Kinetics I: Using an Automated High-Throughput System"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Lei2019a
excerpt: 'This paper presents a method for high-throughput characterization of hERG potassium channel kinetics via fitting a mathematical model to results of over 100 single-cell patch-clamp measurements collected simultaneously on an automated voltage-clamp platform.'
date: 2019-12-17
venue: 'Biophysical Journal'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bpj.2019.07.029'
citation: 'Lei, C.L., Clerx, M., Gavaghan, D.J., et al. (2019). &quot;Rapid Characterization of hERG Channel Kinetics I: Using an Automated High-Throughput System.&quot; <i>Biophysical Journal</i>, 117, 12, p.2438-2454.'
---
Predicting how pharmaceuticals may affect heart rhythm is a crucial step in drug development and requires a deep understanding of a compound's action on ion channels.
In vitro hERG channel current recordings are an important step in evaluating the proarrhythmic potential of small molecules and are now routinely performed using automated high-throughput patch-clamp platforms.
These machines can execute traditional voltage-clamp protocols aimed at specific gating processes, but the array of protocols needed to fully characterize a current is typically too long to be applied in a single cell.
Shorter high-information protocols have recently been introduced that have this capability, but they are not typically compatible with high-throughput platforms.
We present a new 15 second protocol to characterize hERG (Kv11.1) kinetics, suitable for both manual and high-throughput systems.
We demonstrate its use on the Nanion SyncroPatch 384PE, a 384-well automated patch-clamp platform, by applying it to Chinese hamster ovary cells stably expressing hERG1a.
From these recordings, we construct 124 cell-specific variants/parameterizations of a hERG model at 25°C.
A further eight independent protocols are run in each cell and are used to validate the model predictions.
We then combine the experimental recordings using a hierarchical Bayesian model, which we use to quantify the uncertainty in the model parameters, and their variability from cell-to-cell;
we use this model to suggest reasons for the variability.
This study demonstrates a robust method to measure and quantify uncertainty and shows that it is possible and practical to use high-throughput systems to capture full hERG channel kinetics quantitatively and rapidly.

[Download paper here](http://chonlei.github.io/files/Lei2019a.pdf). Or [view here](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bpj.2019.07.029).

