---
title: "A nonlinear and time-dependent leak current in the presence of calcium fluoride patch-clamp seal enhancer"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Lei2020c
excerpt: 'This paper studies a nonlinear-in-voltage and time-dependent leak current due to the effect of a commonly-used seal enhancer in patch-clamping.'
date: 2021-11-02
venue: 'Wellcome Open Research'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.12688/wellcomeopenres.15968.2'
citation: 'Lei, C.L., Fabbri, A., Whittaker, D.G., et al. (2021). &quot;A nonlinear and time-dependent leak current in the presence of calcium fluoride patch-clamp seal enhancer [version 2].&quot; <i>Wellcome Open Res.</i>, 5:152.'
---
Automated patch-clamp platforms are widely used and vital tools in both academia and industry to enable high-throughput studies such as drug screening.
A leak current to ground occurs whenever the seal between a pipette and cell (or internal solution and cell in high-throughput machines) is not perfectly insulated from the bath (extracellular) solution.
Over 1 GΩ seal resistance between pipette and bath solutions is commonly used as a quality standard for manual patch work.
With automated platforms it can be difficult to obtain such a high seal resistance between the intra- and extra-cellular solutions.
One suggested method to alleviate this problem is using an F- containing internal solution together with a Ca2+ containing external solution --- so that a CaF2 crystal forms when the two solutions meet which 'plugs the holes' to enhance the seal resistance.
However, we observed an unexpected nonlinear-in-voltage and time-dependent current using these solutions on an automated patch-clamp platform.
We performed manual patch-clamp experiments with the automated patch-clamp solutions, but no biological cell, and observed the same nonlinear time-dependent leak current.
The current could be completely removed by washing out F- ions to leave a conventional leak current that was linear and not time-dependent.
We therefore conclude fluoride ions interacting with the CaF2 crystal are the origin of the nonlinear time-dependent leak current.
The consequences of such a nonlinear and time-dependent leak current polluting measurements should be considered carefully if it cannot be isolated and subtracted.

[Download paper here](http://chonlei.github.io/files/Lei2021c.pdf). Or [view here](https://doi.org/10.12688/wellcomeopenres.15968.2).
